Now that we have our profile and our models created and migrations run let's open the terminal and large
it's a little bit and let's start playing around with our one to one relation using thinker.
So Ron peach bee artisan thinker into the terminal and let's see what we can do.
So first we will create a new outer model.
We will save it mind that I am using the does the outer class name without the app.
Perfect.
So if your version of Tinker doesn't like this you will have to type new app slash outer.
Okay so we have our outdoor we can see the contents of it.
It is stored inside the database with the I.D. one.
Now let's create a new profile model.
So we create a new instance of the profile the profile doesn't have anything yet because we haven't
started.
And the ideas and times times are assigned at the time when it is stored.
Now if we have an out or and we want to assign our profile to it to it and maybe like in our case the
profile is not yet saved.
What we can do is we can access the profile as a method so that the outer has the profile method.
You can see that here the profile method.
Now let's see what this profile method would return.
So it returns an object of type has one and to assign a profile to an out or will use this objects safe
method to which you will have to find.
You will have to pass the actual profile model so let's call it and you can see that the result of that
is the new profile model which happens to have idea free.
And it also has the outer I.D. automatically assigned with the value of one which happens to be the
I.D. of the out or that we assign it to.
Now let's check the database and you can see that the profile is being saved i.e. free and the outer
I.D..
Here is one.
Now let's see how we can assign them the other way.
So this time we want assign profile to the outer but we'll assign outer to the profile.
So let's create a new instance of the profile.
We can even assign it to the same variable names that we used.
So it's not saved yet.
And now let's create out or using this static create method.
It does the same that like you would create first in the new instance of the outer and then call save
so you can see it ultimately saved this outer and now the outer the sorry the profile has the outer
method which is the relation and this relation is belongs to.
So it also has a method called associate.
And that way you can associate an outer to the profile and then you'll have to call save on it.
So it is true so let's see what this profile contains and you can see that the new outer idea of free
was assigned to this profile to verify that we can see what was the idea on the outer it was free.
And now let's check also the database so you can see that we have two profiles assigned to different
outers
case so far so good.
Now I will show you the third way to do it.
So let's first clear the screen.
So let's create another instance of the profile
and now maybe we'll also create another outer.
So we use out or create.
So we have the outer created and already stored inside the database.
Now we see that the outer I.D. is for.
And as I've told you this relation is basically existing because of the outer I.D. column on the profile
model.
So we have our profile and we can directly access this outer I.D. so it doesn't do anything magical.
It's not like that.
Lara Val can only be used to manage relations using the associate or the say.
The problem the safe method on the relation on the outer model you can directly modify the column that
is basically holding the whole relation so we can assign therefore as the I.D. of the outer into the
profile.
Now let's see how the profile looks like.
And if I was saved a profile it also works so the profile has the outer I.D. of for
and you can see that this relations exists inside the database.
And then you will be able to properly fetch that relation using Lara either in the next lecture.
But now let's also try one more thing.
So we have free outdoors and free profiles.
So maybe we can fetch one of the profiles that we had before.
Maybe the one with the I.D. free.
So let's do that.
We'll assign it to the profile variable using the Find static find method of the profile model.
So we had that and now we'll try to assign the outer I.D. to that profile which would be something that
is already inside the database.
So we want to modify this to be let's say for so that outdoor I.D. We want to set it to four
and now let's try to save changes to the profile model and now what you can see is that integrity constraint
vote violation.
And it says that there is a duplicate entry for for the key and that's the foreign key that we have
defined.
So it is preventing us to assign the same profile to two or more outer rows inside the outers database
on the database level because well we wanted one to one relation and this is how we can protect ourselves
in the database level from assigning more than one model on the one to one relation.
Also let's try one more thing.
So we'll create another profile
and now we want assign outer I.D. in any way.
And let's try to save it.
So you see another error that the field outer I.D. doesn't have a default value.
And since this is foreign key it really has to have value.
So one thing is that this value has to be unique across the tables so there can't be two records with
the same outdoor I.D. but also you cannot save a profile without a signed out or because it just cannot
live on itself.
OK.
That would be it about the creating the relation in the next lecture.
We will see how we can fetch those those relations from the models.
So we'll see how we can fetch that profile by having an outdoor model and the vice versa.
Of course you can also read the more detailed examples on the Vicki page that the link for is included
to this lecture.